You start from your hotel, Heritage Madurai, after a simple but fulfilling breakfast of pongal, medhu vada and dosa. You  visited 3 temples yesterday: the Meenakshi Amman temple, Azhagar Kovil and Pazhamudhir Cholai. Today's plan is simple: Drive north to visit the Samayapuram Mariamman temple and continue to Pondicherry, where you are stopping at Reema's place for the night. Her mom had promised to prepare your favorite dish for dinner when you video called her yesterday. You check Google Maps. Samayapuram would be 2.5 hrs from Madurai, and Pondy around 3 hrs from there. Its 9.30 am now. You calculate that you can reach Samayapuram at noon, just before the temple closes at 1pm. By 2pm, you can be out of the temple and on the road to Pondy.

As you are about the board the car, you hear a peacock's cry in the air. 

Strange. 

You get into the car and connect your phone to the car. The console comes to life with the map. On the passenger seat lies the small picture of Murugan you placed there yesterday. Even in the image, those boyish eyes seem to hold a depth far beyond their years. You remember how you teared up just a little when you saw Him at Pazhamudhir Cholai yesterday.

It was not surprising. Even the quietest souls find themselves stirred at Murugan's temple. Shiva's younger son is worshipped as a major God in Tamil Nadu.  You grew up hearing his stories from your grandmother, watching TV serials reenact his battles and miracles. When you were young, your mother took you to all the Arupadai Veedu. After you moved to Bangalore for work, you still make it a point to visit the six temples every year.

You smile at your memories of Him. His tantrums, his charm, his stubbornness. So many old movies tried to capture it all. He’s by far your favorite god. He is the God of War, the Lord Commander of the Deva army. Forever locked in battle against the devious Asuras. But in your heart, when you think of Him, you do not see a ferocious man. You see a boy, innocent yet stubborn. The one who walked away from his home because he felt cheated out of a fruit. The one who gifted Tamil to the word by teaching it to Agastya, who spread it to the world. He is revered and loved as the embodiment of Tamil valor and culture. You remember your grandmother's name for him: "Adithamizhan", the first Tamilan. 

You turn on the radio and the classical tunes of Ilayaraja fill the car. You nod in tune with the beat, alone and one with the music. The fields are green, ready for harvest. The sun is shining. In the distance you can see some rain clouds gathering in the otherwise blue sky. Your belly is full. And yet, for some reason, you feel like you are on the precipice of something. You shake away the feeling as you lose yourself in the music. Ilayaraja melts into Rahman, and the road goes on.

It is 12.05pm when you park your car neatly and get down at Samayapuram. Thankfully, the temple was mostly empty. You buy a garland for Amman at the flower shop, leave your footwear there and head inside to see the goddess. This is your first time in this specific temple. She is said to be one of the powerful forms of Mariamman, the goddess of rain, fertility, and health. Legend has it that the idol was originally in the Srirangam temple. But She was so powerful that She began causing disturbances there. So, the idol was brought here to Samayapuram and enshrined in Her own temple. 

Even today, devotees come from far and near to get her blessings and ask her to cure their ailments. It is believed that if you perform certain rituals to her, She can cure any sort of disease, even chicken pox. Your father still keeps a photo of Amman in his purse. Coming back to the present, you offer the garland to the priest, asking him to do a pooja in the Goddess' name. You close your eyes, letting the mantras and slokas as they wash over you.  You pray for your health, your family's health and your financial success. You pray that the presentation you have on Monday goes well and you get the promotion you know you deserve. When you open your eyes again, you feel as if the Goddess has seen you. In the dim light of the deepam, Her unblinking eyes feels stern yet gentle.

You drop 1000 rupees to the temple undiyal and sit down, back to the wall. You passively observe the different people milling about. You close your eyes, listening to the silence, the song of the birds, the laughter of children as they run about. You smile. No amount of divine power can cause children to sit down quietly. You open your eyes and stand up, getting ready to leave. Just as you are about to turn, your eyes fall on a middle aged woman sitting a bit away from you. She is dressed in a saree, pleated neatly. She was humming some slokas in Tamil as she tied the jasmine flowers into strings. But what caught your attention was that she was white. Ethnically. With blonde hair. 

You are certain she was not there minutes ago when you sat down and closed your eyes. Yet now that you have seen her, something in you draws you to her. Before you can stop yourself, you find yourself walking towards where she sits.  As you near her, she looks up. Her eyes are a deep blue, and they seem to twinkle with energy and mischief. But when they meet yours, you feel them pierce through you, as if she is reading your soul.

"You looked so serious during your prayer,” she says, smiling. “I thought about tossing a flower at you.” You blink. Her Tamil is fluent, with a faintly musical lilt. You open your mouth, but she continues, eyes dancing. "I can speak in English if you find me talking Tamil too weird" she says, switching seamlessly. You catch a hint of an English accent. "You're wondering if I was here a minute ago" You nod. She leans in, conspiratorially. "Maybe I was. Maybe I wasn't. It all depends on the story". She pats the stone next to her. You sit, keeping a respectful distance. "I have been sitting here longer than you think. But then again, few people see me unless they are meant to."

After a few minutes of silence, she turns to you. "You know, I see a lot of devotees every day. Many claim to carry Amman and Murugan in their hearts. Few however have placed Skandha on their passenger seat like you have".  You laugh nervously. "The placement was unintentional. But I feel that He is always around. It's a bit hard to explain." She smiles, and you immediately feel at ease. "No need to explain. I know how He chooses his people. I am waiting for one of his people too, I think."

"But child, you don't know all the stories about him. You only know what you have been told. His epic battle with Surapadman. His rise to become the commander of the Deva army. His marriage to Valli and Deivanai. His deep ties to this land."

She paused.

"But do you know the real story? The one not written in scripture nor sung in songs. The story of why the skies closed … and the supernatural disappeared from this realm." 

Something in you makes you want to stay. To listen to the tales of this blonde woman dressed in a white saree and speaking of Murugan as if it was the most natural thing in the world. 

You nod. 

With the energy of a true story teller, the woman begins her tale.